# Recipe-Cost-Calculator-Using-Excel
Whether you are running a restaurant or just want to find out how much it costs to prepare a dish, the Recipe Cost Calculator will help to do just this. The template can calculate cost of the main and additional ingredients used in preparation of dish and suggest the final selling price and profit on it.
##This excel file has 3 worksheets named Item No,Recipe, Chart worksheet. In the first worksheet I have added some dummy item like salt, milk ,sugar using which require to create recipes. The next field contains units i.e. in gm , the initial purchasing quantity and respective price.
##In the second worksheet I have added the header item name , unit, qty, price, used in recipe and cost. For to automatically list down all the item list present in master worksheet I have used Data validation (list) feature. For unit ,qty, price It should automatically reflect the value w.r.t Item no present in master worksheet. For that , I have used Vlookup function in all three field.
##For used in recipe I have to add the quantity used based on that cost should be automatically updated. The mathmatical formula used to calculate cost is G7/E7*F7(column no). Total quantity used in recipe is calucated using sum of all the values. Subtotal is total minus wastage. To automate the suggested selling price I have added Ideal Food cost % , formula used is =H21/H23(coulmon no).To calclulate the gst amount added the formula =D23*D27. Final selling price is sum of sggested selling price , gst amount, additional amount.To calucate profit I have used the formula =D31-(H21+D28+D29) (column no).
##In the third worksheet , I have created a combo chart plot. I have choosen the average profit for chowmein recipe based on total serving per month. This graph reflects on which month maximum profit is generated. 

